slo as code (#1439)
harness/developer-hub: docs/service-reliability-management/slo/slo-as-code.md

---
title: SLO as code
description: Learn how to manage SLOs through code using Terraform based entities.
sidebar_position: 2
---

Harness provides tools such as [Git Experience](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/git-experience/git-experience-overview/) and Terraform, to help you manage entities using code. 

Using the SLO as code feature of Harness SRM, you can manage Service Level Objectives (SLOs) through code. SRM supports SLO as code for Terraform based entities. This means that the definition of the entity is stored in GitHub using Terraform based files.

## Prerequisites

- A Git repo with at least one branch.​
- A Git connector with a Personal Access Token (PAT) for your Git account.​

The following sections explain how to set up Terraform based entities to manage SLO as code.

> ## Setup Git Repository in GitHub

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up a Git Repository in GitHub
```

apt-get install unzip
unzip terraform_1.3.6_linux_amd64.zip
cp terraform /usr/bin/
terraform --version
```

## Create a pipeline and add Terraform Plan step

To create a pipeline:

1. In Harness, go to your project > **Deployment** > **Pipelines**, and then select **+ Create a Pipeline**.
2. Add a custom stage.
3. Select **Add Step** and choose **Terraform Plan**.
4. Enter a name for the Terraform Plan
5. Enter a name for the **Provisioner Identifier** and add a **Secret**. 
   You will be asked for this secret when applying the Terraform Plan step.
6. In **Configuration File Repository**, select the GitHub repository that you created.
7. In the **Advanced** tab and select the delegate that you created as the default delegate for Terraform Plan.
8. Select Apply Changes to save and add the Terraform Plan step to the pipeline.

## Add Terraform Apply step

To add a Terraform Apply step:
In the custom stage, select **Add Step** and choose **Terraform Apply**.
Enter a name for the Terraform Apply step, select **Configuration Type**, and **Provisioner Identifier**.
In **Configuration File Repository**, select the GitHub repository that you created.

> In the **Advanced** tab and select the delegate that you created as the default delegate for Terraform Plan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the **Advanced** tab, select the delegate that you created as the default delegate for Terraform Plan.
```

Select **Apply Changes** to save and add the Terraform Plan step to the pipeline.

## Create a webhook trigger
To learn how to create a webhook trigger, go to [Trigger Deployments using Custom Triggers](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/triggers/trigger-deployments-using-custom-triggers/).

> ## Add webhook to the GitHub repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add a webhook to the GitHub repository
```

> To add webhook URL to GitHub repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a webhook URL to a GitHub repository:
```

1. In your GitHub repository go to settings > webhooks.

> 2. Add a new webhook and paste the payload URL from that you have copied from step 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add a new webhook and paste the payload URL from that you copied in step 1.
```

3. Paste the secret created while setting up the trigger.
4. Select the event as **Just the push event** to trigger the webhook.
5. Save the webhook.
 

## Push changes to the repository

> Push changes to the GitHub repository, to trigger a workflow for the pipeline. During the pipeline run, the Terraform Plan step fetches changes from GitHub and applies to all the entities which have changes. The changes can be creating a new entity, updating an existing entity, or deleting an existing entity. During the pipeline run, the Terraform Plan step fetches the latest changes from the repository and generates a plan for updating the infrastructure. The plan may include creating a new entity, updating an existing entity, or deleting an existing entity. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Push your changes to the GitHub repository to trigger a workflow for the pipeline. During the pipeline run, the Terraform Plan step fetches changes from GitHub and applies them to all updated entities. The changes can be creating a new entity, updating an existing entity, or deleting an existing entity. During the pipeline run, the Terraform Plan step fetches the latest changes from the repository and generates a plan for updating the infrastructure. The plan may include creating a new entity, updating an existing entity, or deleting an existing entity. 
```
